If your child has a knee fracture,
it means there is a break or crack
in one of the bones
that make up the knee joint.
These bones include the
upper leg bone or femur,
the bones in the lower leg bones
the tibia and fibula
and the kneecap.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the ends of the bone,
bone growth can be affected and may require
special X-rays or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible
than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack
or just buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
Surgery may be needed if the
broken bone is crooked;
wires, pins, screws,
metal plates or rods
may be used to hold the
straightened bones together.
Treatment of a knee fracture may require
wearing a splint until swelling is reduced,
followed by a cast for 4 to 8 weeks.
Your child may need to use
crutches for several weeks.